A problem has appeared that really isn't visible at first glance.
If you take a look at the editor you'll see this button called Ad media right above it.
This allows you to use the media uploader inside the text senator.
It's really useful but not completely usable for everyone.
I want you to log out and then sign in as the test user we created earlier.
If you don't remember those credentials then just create another account and try submitting a recipe
you'll notice that the button we had previously is gone.
Long out and log back in as an admin.
So what exactly is going on.
Well first let's check out that capabilities versus roles table first in the resource section of this
lecture.
I provide a link to this page and table I've shown you this table before.
It lists all the roles and their capabilities by default.
All new users are assigned to the subscriber role.
Unless you manually set it scroll to the very bottom of the table and you'll see that the subscriber
role only has one capability which is read in order to see the ad media button.
You need the capability upload files.
This is a very important concept to understand.
WordPress doesn't care very much about what role a user is in it cares more about their capabilities
WordPress plugins and themes will check your capability over your role.
All a role does is group your capabilities together.
If you scroll down this page even further you'll find the default capabilities described in detail and
what you can do with each one.
With that being said we have to decide on a way where the user can have the capability upload files.
The first solution that comes to mind is just to make it so all users who register are assigned to the
author role.
However this would also assign them other capabilities we may not want users to have.
Another solution is to modify the subscriber role and just and the upload files capability.
The problem with this is that we shouldn't try to modify default WordPress roles.
The last solution is to just create our own custom roll with custom capabilities.
This is the best solution and it's quite simple to implement open the plug and activation file.
At the very end of the function I'm going to grab the WP rolls global variable.
This variable contains information about the current roles in WordPress.
We need this.
If we're going to add our very own role with capabilities to add a role we need to call the function
add role.
This function has three parameters.
The first parameter is the role name.
This can be thought of as an I.D. for the role.
I'm going to set this to recipe author.
The second parameter is a readable name of the role.
I'm going to make this translatable and set this to recipe author the last parameter is a list of capabilities.
This role will have there are three roles I want to assign.
I want to set the read edit posts and upload files capabilities to true
all these capabilities will now be grouped together with this role.
That's all you need to do.
I want you to deactivate and reactivate this plugin.
You shouldn't receive any errors
now all we have to do is tell WordPress that all new registered users should be assigned this role.
Luckily you don't have to write a single line of code to accomplish this.
Go to Settings general if you look at the new user default role setting.
You'll notice that the recipe author role appearing as an option.
I want you to select this role and then save your changes
to save some time.
I'm not going to create a new user I'm just going to modify the test user and change their role to the
newly created role and save
that I'm going to log out and log in as the test user again try submitting a recipe.
You should see the ad media button up here for the user.
This is exactly what we wanted.
We can now proceed as normal.